---
title: 'The Unchristian'
date: 2024/06/08
description: 'A retelling of why I left the church and am now atheist.'
author: 'Varun Narravula'
timeToRead: 25-30 minutes
image:
    url: '/assets/church-interior.png'
    alt: 'The interior of a church'
tags: ['christianity', 'deconstruction', 'atheism']
---

import Image from '@components/mdx/Image.astro';

## Part 0: Hi there.

Disclaimer: If you've come here from the random depths, hello there. This is one
of my more thought-out pieces that is filled with a considerable amount of
personal details, so if you feel uncomfy, it's fine to click off. I don't mind
at all. If you're still here, I'm glad you want to know more about the
particular struggles I have had with faith, namely of the Christian variety.

First off, if you're a Christian, or even simply a person of faith of some sort
other than that, I implore you, _please don't click off this page_. I know
deconstruction is a rather scary word for many, but please give this a try; it
took a lot of effort for me to even gather the courage to speak about this.

My goal is not to convince you of anything. Instead, I aim to simply tell a
story, or more aptly for this context, a _testimony_. **My** testimony. This
isn't clickbait, I can promise that, so please, humor me, and feel free to
contact me to talk about it after.

My journey through faith has been something that has followed me my entire
lifetime. It's been a wild ride, really, filled with ups and downs that are only
matched by ungodly creations like the
[Euthanasia Coaster](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Euthanasia_Coaster). Well,
that may be hyperbolic, but I digress. Not only has it been wild, it has been a
long time coming, and I think it's time I talked about it.

This is a piece about my journey as someone who was raised in the Christian
church. Over a long period of time, I've started to question the value of it
all, and why I believe what I believe. This lead me down a painful journey of
deconstruction that was almost 6 years in the making, and eventually led to my
deconversion.

## Part I: Faith

I was raised a Christian by my family. My mother was (and still is) a devout
Christian, having converted when she was living in India along with her older
sister; however, my dad was not. My older sister and I were raised in the
church, and we were exposed to all the doctrines from early age; in fact, my
mother even told me that the first book I learned to read was the Bible (I had a
children's version of it and would read it all the time; I even have vague
recollections of doing this). I was fascinated by all the stories, and when I
was told they were true and without errors, I believed it wholeheartedly.

My mother even told me that I myself _was_ a miracle when I was grown up, that I
was diagnosed with a whole swath of developmental disorders, but most of them
had disappeared by the time I was four years old. I had no reason to doubt that,
especially when I was young; after all, I knew I could kind of interact with
people in a semi-coherent way, even though I still had problems with it.

From the beginning, I was taught to read my Bible. In fact, it was a fixture of
my daily routine; in the morning, drink some warm water, brush your teeth, and
open your Bible. Read one chapter per day, learn something new, every day. As a
child, I did complain about this routine, but I later on grew to love it. It was
my bread, just as the Lord's Prayer spoke of; I lived by its words. It could
speak of no wrong in my eyes, it was that foundational. After all, I read the
magical words, "You shall love your neighbor as yourself" (Matthew 22:39), and I
was entranced in this moral direction; it can't be wrong, can it? With all the
things it gets right, I couldn't even comprehend the idea that this could have
been wrong; in fact, I never did for most of my life.

I went to a single non-denominational church for most of my life, and attended
almost every week with my mother and sister. Since I was taught about the faith
from an early age, I was already convinced of the idea that Jesus had died and
resurrected for my sins. In fact, after I understood what a "baptism" was, and
after my sister was baptized, I begged my mother for _years_ upon years to do
the same. Since I was in elementary school at the time, she simply told me
"You're not ready yet"; this cycle continued until 2016, when I was in middle
school. I was baptized then, in an auditorium filled with people I knew.

At my baptism, I was asked a single question that many millions of people had
been asked prior: "Do you believe Jesus Christ died for your sins and was
resurrected from the dead?"

I replied, "Of course!" _What, you think He didn't?_, I had in my mind. The
auditorium laughed along in approval of my emphatic response. And underneath the
water I went, and came back up to the sound of cheering. It felt magical, as if
I had won the game of life while still being so young. Little did I know that my
response to this question was one that I would laugh at myself for, given some
time.

<Image
    name="jesus-baptism.png"
    alt="Illustration of Jesus getting baptized by John"
/>

Regardless of that, after I came out of the water, I felt as if Jesus Himself
had come down into the water and whispered into my ears, "Well done, my good and
faithful servant!" (Matthew 25:23), and had opened a literal doorway in my
chest. Nothing could replicate that. I was redeemed; a new child had been born
out of the filth. It was time to rejoice in His presence!

Around this same time, I auditioned for my church's worship band. I am an avid
drummer, and contemporary Christian worship songs from artists like Hillsong and
Elevation were extremely simple for me to pick up and learn on the drum kit. My
worship pastor took me on, and I started playing music with them almost every
single week. I connected with some people of faith that was almost divine in my
eyes, and I was in awe of their abilities, as well as their disposition for
faith, and aspired to be like them. Needless to say, I was a devout Christian
for most of my young life, and there was no letting go of that, ever.

Or so I thought.

## Part II: Doubt

Let's rewind a few years back from here.

Around my fifth-grade year (2014), a close uncle of mine saw that I was a very
curious person. I had always been since birth, asking questions about anything
and everything, though unsurprisingly I never thought of doing the same thing in
regard to my faith. He gave me a swath of books, all from an author named Ken
Ham. I didn't think much of this name, but I was addicted to reading, so
naturally, I picked these books up after a while. I learned about the idea that
there were people out there that didn't have the same perspectives as me, and
that I needed to defend myself against these people; I could defend myself using
"knowledge!"[^knowledge] After all, there was a mountain of evidence for God's
existence, I needed just to "Fear not, for [He] is with me" (Isaiah 41:10).

I read these books front to back, arming myself with arguments against the
people who dared to question God. _How could these people question my faith?_, I
asked myself over and over again. Yet, it didn't feel right as I was reading
these books. Something was off. But I didn't think much of it. Having been
taught a literalist interpretation of the Bible, I regarded all types of doubt
about my faith as demonic, and regarded Satan as a real, scary entity that could
easily lead me to a cliff and throw me off into the valley of the shadow of
death (Psalms 23:4).

Interestingly, this sentiment was not shaken even as I had my first encounter
with an idea from the faith that I disagreed with. I listen to metal (and many
other genres, check out my [last.fm](https://www.last.fm/user/water-sucks) for
some recs), and I first encountered it around my sixth grade school year (2014).
When this same close uncle that gave me the Ken Ham books heard about this, he
took me aside privately and started scolding me, telling me that "metal music
was a way for the devil to find his way into my soul," and that when the devil
does that, his only goal is to "steal, kill, and destroy" (John 10:10). I took
issue with this, as I loved my music, and was even listening to mostly Christian
or Christian-influenced metal bands such as August Burns Red and Underoath
(great bands, by the way; you should listen to them!). However, out of trust for
this uncle, I tried to stop listening to my favorite bands, and transitioned
over to other genres of music.

_Spoiler alert_: this transition to other types of music didn't work; I still
listen to metal today.

<Image
    name="brr-brr-deng.jpg"
    alt="Mudvayne brr brr deng meme"
    caption="Yeah, it was definitely this dude that made me ditch religion."
    width="400px"
/>

Coincidentally, I discovered many other bands through this process, like Saosin
and other bands that I still listen to today, so maybe this was a blessing in
disguise. Regardless, I was disheartened by this blatant dismissal of my own
feelings around the music I loved to listen to, but my faith was still strong in
spite of that; I just pushed those feelings to the back of my mind and continued
on believing.

I held fast to a creationist, literalist view of the Bible, and this was not
shaken at all by any teachings about "unbiblical" stuff like evolution that I
was exposed to in my science classes until around my freshman year of high
school (2017). I was having a conversation with one of my best friends on the
phone, and we were just talking about random things. We veered into religion
sometime during this (for context, he was a casually-practicing Hindu), and I
brought up the fact that I believed in creationism and that God created the
Earth in six 24-hour days. He simply laughed at me, saying:

    > You seriously believe in that shit, Varun?

I fought back against this, saying I had evidence, and tried to bring up what I
had learned from the apologetics books I was given. This was my first active
application of those concepts; I had to know what I was talking about, right? I
left that conversation thinking I had won my case, but that first little seed of
doubt was planted in my heart right then and there, and I was not aware at _all_
of what havoc it would end up wreaking on my life.

A few weeks later, I still found myself mildly shaken up at this conversation. I
decided to go on Google and just start going down rabbit holes, searching for
anything related to what we were talking about. I started with searches like:

-   "Why is evolution true?"
-   "Why is creationism true?"
-   "Why is evolution false?"
-   "Why is creationism false?"

But this eventually turned into more of the following searches:

-   "Contradictions in the Bible"
-   "Refutations of contradictions in the Bible"
-   "Why is the Bible true?"
-   "How was the Bible made?"

Cut me some slack, I don't remember the _exact_ keywords. I don't think
15-year-old me would have understood what "refutation" meant, but I digress. You
get the idea, hopefully. I would go down these rabbit holes for hours a day,
just reading, absorbing whatever information I could find. But that hole still
remained in my heart, and I couldn't understand why this was the case.

I didn't know it at the time, but these were the beginnings of **doubt**, and it
was something I had feared for a long time in this realm. I had always regarded
hell as a literal entity, and was scared shitless of it; after all, I was just a
kid. What would happen if I doubted, and that led me to commit the worst of all
sins, the [unpardonable sin](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eternal_sin) (Luke
12:10)? So I kept reading my Bible, and kept trying to be devout. I struggled
heavily with my mental health throughout all of my high school years, and these
seeds of doubt were one of the primary contributors towards it. I also struggled
with suicidal ideation, and tried to publically commit suicide when I was around
16 years old, which eventually led to me being placed on medications. This
didn't exactly help the case for my doubt.

On a side note: I still struggle with depression and suicidal ideation today,
although it has been quite a while since I've acted on those urges. I've learned
some strategies to deal with it through therapy and other forms of support,
which is nice.

I kept reading my Bible, which was an annotated version from a pastor named
David Jeremiah that I was gifted. While I wouldn't mark it up, I kept its
additional commentary in the margins close to my heart. Many times passed where
I would read it front to back; One year, I attended
[Alpha](https://alpha.org/about/), a course targeted at Christians and
unbelievers alike to teach the fundamentals of the Christian faith. I was in a
group with my campus lead pastor as the leader of it, and we were discussing
quite often the core tenets of the Christian faith. _Anything to quell the very
doubt that would send me to the abyss_, I thought.

<Image
    name="david-jeremiah-bible.jpg"
    alt="My personal Bible, with commentary from David Jeremiah"
    width="300px"
    caption="My personal Bible, with commentary from David Jeremiah"
/>

My beliefs bled over to my high school environment as well, also in particularly
unlikable ways. While I was in marching band, I developed a budding friendship
with someone from the color guard that also happened to attend the same church
that I did. We talked a lot, and ended up vibing so much that I even developed
some slight feelings for her. She eventually told me that she was lesbian, and I
was mortified. I couldn't even _comprehend_ how someone could attend church and
simultaneously be part of the LGBTQ+ community. I was taught that these people
are to be regarded as sinners. We ended up going back and forth about this
multiple times, and eventually I let my true feelings at the time slip: the
age-old adage of "Love the sin, hate the sinner." I wouldn't know at the time
(much less why it would be the case), but she was hurt by that, and our
friendship wilted slowly.

This nagged me for a while. I didn't know what I did to hurt her, but I was
still under the impression that people like her just wanted to live a life of
sin. This contributed more to the doubts in my mind. Would Jesus seriously
condone what I did to her? I, myself, was also a sinner, yet I cast the first
stone. I forced myself to look at different perspectives, the same way I forced
myself to look at the theory of evolution online. That's all I could find solace
in: learning.

The thoughts, experiences, and consequences as a result of these could never
leave me alone. I was constantly thinking about them, and the impact that they
had on my life, and as this happened, I finally realized I needed to do one
thing, more than anything else: I needed to dig into my foundations to see what
was buried in it, and if it was worth believing.

## Part III: Deconstruction

<Image
    name="scrambled-road.jpg"
    alt="Man standing at beginning of scrambled road"
/>

So begins the journey of the often ill-fated term,
["deconstruction"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Faith_deconstruction). I was
frankly terrified of this concept at first; in fact, I didn't even know what it
truly meant or what the word for the process even was until a year into the
process of starting it. I simply knew that I wanted reassurance that what I
believed in what was correct, and that I could apply that truth to my life.

At the time, I was on Reddit a considerable amount, and often used it as a
central forum of resources I could gather from. Subreddits like
[r/OpenChristian](https://reddit.com/r/OpenChristian),
[r/Exvangelical](https://reddit.com/r/Exvangelical), among others caught my eye,
and I made posts there regularly about different topics, like how I had stopped
seeing the "magic" in contemporary Christian music and other worship music after
having played it live for so long[^ccm], and how I could have better beliefs in
certain topics while still having it reconcile with the Bible that I had always
known.

One day, I was helping my church build out a new stage for worship, and the
conversation among us shifted to the topic of evolution. When this came up, I
finally mentioned that I really wanted to know how I could reconcile the Bible's
claims and the reality of certain scientific concepts like evolution. When I
said that, my worship pastor looked at me, not in disapproval, but with a face
of happiness. I was confused; wasn't I doubting something that shouldn't be
doubted? He told me this:

    > Doubting and asking is good for your faith, Varun.
    > God is more than willing to answer your questions.

That wasn't the exact quote, but that was the essence I took away from the
conversation we had. He recommended me a book to read, namely
[_Irresistible_](https://books.google.com/books/about/Irresistible.html?id=3oEoDwAAQBAJ),
by Andy Stanley, a pastor. I Googled it, and to my initial dismay, most of the
searches that came up were write-ups by conservative and fundamentalist
organizations like the Gospel Coalition that warned me about the heretical
beliefs that are supposedly espoused by Stanley in this book. That made me more
intrigued than ever; I knew about infighting between Christians, but had never
seen such vehement dismissal of certain ones before. The
[Streisand effect](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Streisand_effect) had taken me
over, and it made me that much more excited to read this. So I bought the
book[^irresistible].

When I finished reading, I noticed a sense of catharsis that was hanging over my
mind. It was freeing, almost as if I could think for myself regarding my own
faith for the very first time. However, I was almost angry at my church, at the
surrounding Christians that told me there was only _one_ way in which I could
follow my God. The teachings of Jesus were infinitely more important for me to
follow than any Old Testament teachings; after all, the carpet with all the
uncleanliness has been rolled up into heaven (Acts 10:9-16)! I felt deceived
with this newfound ability to think. _Knowledge was a curse_, I thought; _that's
the way ignorance is bliss, right_? This anger did eventually settle, and the
only feeling I was left with was peace. My faith was changed forever, but for
the better.

<Image
    name="man-standing-in-front-of-god.jpg"
    alt="Man standing in front of God"
    caption="My interrogation of God was commencing."
/>

After reading this book, I let go of the idea of Biblical inerrancy. I saw it
for how limiting it was for my own knowledge, and even for my own faith. If the
Bible was only inspired by God, but written by humans, the mistakes I saw from
before actually make sense! I now understood Christianity through the lens of
humanity, not just through the words of the Bible. Instead of reading the Bible
in an [_eisegetical_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eisegesis) manner, I now
sought to read it in an [_exegetical_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Exegesis)
manner[^exegesis]. As for scientific concepts like evolution, I finally saw the
evidence for them far outweighed the beliefs I had in the creationism and
anti-scientific, fundamentalist variants of faith that I had once espoused. In
summary, I was now a progressive Christian who deeply sympathized with the
tenets of
[liberation theology](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Liberation_theology). I even
contacted the friend I had offended previously, and profusely thanked them for
dealing with my own naivety with such a kind heart. I was ecstatic about all
these developments; it meant a new era for my faith.

This did not spell the end of my deconstruction process, though. It was only the
beginning.

At one point, I had to re-evaluate my perspectives on hell. I could not
fundamentally reconcile this with the idea of a
[tri-omni](https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/tri-omni) God, and eventually I found
the rationalizations for hell quite sickening and incoherent. There was no way
in hell (pun intended) I could justify a God being simultaneously omnibenevolent
and willing to judge an inferior creation of His to an infinite punishment for
the finite crimes over less than 120 years, at maximum. After all, He will take
care of us with more diligence so than He ever will for the simple sparrow
(Matthew 6:25-34), no? Through more digging, I found the ideas of Christian
universalism, and read about St. Augustine and his ideas surrounding the
doctrine. I was again ecstatic to find that there were others out there that had
the same ideas as I, and was convinced of the goodness of God once more. My mind
was pliable, and ready to learn more and more.

The COVID pandemic only served to give me more time to ruminate about these
ideas. With the many hours I had just lying around, I took the time to just
research everything I possibly could. I found out about the Apocrypha, along
with other non-canonical books such as the
[Gospel of Thomas](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gospel_of_Thomas) and other
[Gnostic texts](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nag_Hammadi_library). My
perspectives on faith were changing by the minute.

Around this time (c. 2020-2021), I graduated from high school, and I started to
dig heavily into philosophy and other related subjects. I took a philosophy
class at my community college, and it was radically eye-opening to the different
epistemological perspectives that existed through the times, including those of
non-Christian ones that I had not really familiarized myself with yet. I took
the time to learn about
[Søren Kierkegaard](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/S%C3%B8ren_Kierkegaard),
[Albert Camus](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Albert_Camus),
[Friedrich Nietzsche](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Friedrich_Nietzsche), and
the likes of other existentialist philosophers, and held the reasoning of
[Descartes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ren%C3%A9_Descartes) for why there was
a good God dear to my heart, since it seemed like a bulletproof defense of the
concept. However, the walls were falling down all around me as I was exposed to
every single one of these ideas, and they were all so compelling in their
explanatory power and prowess, without the ontological baggage of the Bible as a
whole. I was at a crossroads[^crossroads] for my beliefs, without even knowing
it.

## Part IV: End of an Era

I didn't know it at the time, but I had subscribed to a
["God of the gaps"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/God_of_the_gaps)-like
theology[^gotg], and kept this way of thinking throughout my time at community
college after I had graduated from high school. I couldn't let go of the idea,
even I knew in the back of my head this was a flawed presupposition to have.
However, there was a big development that I had noticed over the times that my
beliefs had changed. I found myself less convinced of some concepts that were in
the Bible; there were parts of it that I had once accepted as being irrelevant
to the current message that now seemed irreconcilable with the fundamental
assumptions about the God I worshiped that I had:

-   If there is a benevolent God, why is there so much evil that comes to those
    who do not deserve it (i.e. children)?
-   If there is an omniscient and/or omnipotent God, how can he change His mind?
    Does that not make Him non-omniscient and/or non-omnipotent?
-   Where is God, and why won't he talk to me, despite my cries out to Him?

As you can tell, these were the fundamental questions of old; the problem of
[teleological evil](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Problem_of_evil), the
[Epicurean paradox](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Epicurean_paradox), the
problem of
[divine hiddenness](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Argument_from_nonbelief), and
the like. They were now questions that seemed completely unanswerable with even
the most convoluted of theodicies. I was wrapping my head over and out in
cognitive dissonance about the very fundamentals of the things that I believed.
Sixth-grade me would have been terrified; however, I now had the desire to
question even that which I was not to question. The "God of the gaps" theology I
had at the time was still there in my mind, but that gap was shrinking, and it
was shrinking _fast_.

What was also fundamentally different was that I couldn't even bring myself to
talk about God as if I believed in Him anymore. I would keep my faith status
private, and when people asked me about it, I would just say it was a private
matter, without elaborating further. I still went to church (and in fact was
volunteering in some capacity almost every single week, whether it was playing
drums, or running camera equipment, or something else). It was a little
draining, since I didn't exactly listen to the preaching, and didn't share many
of the same beliefs as I used to; after all, it was still a non-denominational
church with relatively conservative beliefs. For almost a full year between 2022
and 2023, I kept going to church like this with no further
problems[^kept-going]. I called myself an agnostic privately, saying that I was
unable to truly know if there was a God or not since that idea was
unfalsifiable; however, I wanted for it to be true, so that I didn't have to
lose my faith of old. There was one person at the same church I was going to
that I confided this in, who himself had a similar view.

The principal problem that I initially failed to see was that the "God of the
gaps"-like theology that I held was a _black box_; it stifled the desire to
learn. I would be held back by the assumption that something is because of God,
without the desire to go learn why that was regardless of God. The phrase that
captures this the most is likely the tired, old adage that many Christians and
atheists alike have heard at some point in their lives:

    > God works in mysterious ways.

<Image name="man-staring-at-wall.jpg" alt="Man staring at a brick wall" />

This phrase was straight-up painful to hear after a while; it was as mentally
painful as running straight into a brick wall. The sheer NUMBER of times I've
heard this phrase is astounding, and it's such a damn cop-out. How can you
simultaneously claim to know God's intentions through the Bible, and only resort
to this adage when you can't explain something within the framework that you
have adopted? It's as if the person who lets this phrase slip has a fear of the
unknown. It _has_ to work in some way because of _my_ convictions. God
absolutely had some sort of intention or causation behind this; we just didn't
know it yet, and we will once we do meet Him.

I had trouble squaring this thought with myself, but I simply just did for years
upon end while I was still a Christian. I did this at all phases of my faith
journey; it didn't matter when I was a full-on young-earth creationist and
fundamentalist, or when I was someone who leaned more towards an agnostic
Christian perspective later on. Anything that I didn't know a reason for was
sent to a black box of fundamental assumptions I had about the nature of the
world, never to be seen again, for God simply had a reason that I could not
fathom, either for my own good or because I was not powerful enough to know; I
did this for many of the questions I raised above. For a while, that is.

Until I couldn't.

Divine hiddenness was the problem that pushed me over the edge. I prayed
constantly in my head, even when I was agnostic. I just wanted what I considered
to be a quite low expectation of an omnipotent being: a convincing explanation
or experience that would unambiguously show me that this God that I had believed
in for almost my entire life had a real presence. If you've ever heard the quote
from William Lane Craig, of
["If there’s one’s chance in a million that Christianity is true, it’s worth believing,"](https://www.reasonablefaith.org/writings/question-answer/raising-and-lowering-the-epistemic-bar)
that was exactly what I had in mind. I prayed for signs, held on to my
confirmation biases, held on to what my mother had told me when I was young:
that I myself was a miracle in God's eyes. I did it _all_. You would think that
as an all-powerful being, He would be able to do this without overriding free
will or whatever the next theodicy will like to claim; to say that this God
cannot do something was simply a poverty of imagination on behalf of the
apologist making the claim[^poi].

But He never did, and that only made me incredibly sad. In my times of weakness,
in my times when I wanted to throw myself off a bridge, or commit suicide in
other ways, He was the defining example of silence. No response for my earnest
efforts for proof in my darkest moments, when I was about to succumb to the
worst act in regard to existence; in any other realm, I would have abandoned
that idea for good, but why was I not doing that in this instance, where this
God was so simultaneously incontrovertible in my head, yet effectively
nonexistent?

I don't remember when this happened, but I consciously came to the realization I
was just uncomfortable with the words, _"I don't know"_. I can say this phrase
for so many other fields; the scientific realm, as a developer, as a drummer,
composer, you name it. The unknowable is just that: _unknowable_. There's
nothing you can do; every proposition that is unknowable is in a superposition
of sorts, but what effect can it have on me if that superposition can't collapse
into something knowable? Simply put:

    > You don't have to know everything.

Being able to say that about things is magical. It's lifting an epistemological
load that I had to bear for years trying to justify what I couldn't through
convoluted chains of theodicies. I started getting content on my YouTube feed
from absolutely phenomenal creators such as
[Forrest Valkai](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC6BLQ4Po0euDOZq9gUgkWAQ) who
changed my perspective radically on what it meant to even know something, and
the theodicies started fading into the distance; I now found solace in the great
unknown.

And so concluded my journey. I couldn't answer the theological questions I put
forth precisely because they looked like contradictions. And
well...[if it looks like a duck, walks like one, and quacks like one](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Duck_test),
then what else could it really be? If I truly wanted to decrease the amount of
assumptions I held about the world, I had to let go of this untenable divine
solution to a problem that we humans have created. There was no concrete day
when this became the perspective that I became convinced of; it was just a
thought I had in the back of my mind at first around the beginning of 2022, but
it became stronger in its convincing power gradually. And as you can tell by the
nature of this post, it prevailed.

**I no longer believed in God** (2023).
[God was dead to me, and I had killed him with my own hands](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/God_is_dead).
I had
[ripped him out of my throat](http://4umi.com/nietzsche/zarathustra/46)[^throat]
after a 6-year battle with my own thoughts, from the end of 2017 to the end
of 2023.[^caps]

There's an important note to consider at the end of this process. This was not a
choice that I consciously made. I simply was less and less convinced of the
reality of the Christian god over time. I do not believe that you can choose
your beliefs. Ironic, but my belief in this concept is most succinctly captured
by this quote:

    > A man can do what he wills, but he cannot will what he wills.

→ _Arthur Schopenhauer_

## Part V: What Now?

Where do I go from here?

It's not enough to say that I've stopped believing in the Christian god. This
way of living had influenced my life for 20 years at this point, so how was I
going to approach my newfound lack of faith that I had finally come to terms
with in my own head?

That's a hard question. _I still don't know_[^idk], to be honest. I wish I had a
simple answer, but there are quite a few circumstances I need to take into
account.

For one, I'm already outing myself as an atheist on here. Since I live in the
United States, and have many family members and friends that are quite devout
Christians, this is more of a big deal than if I were to do this being raised in
a primarily atheist environment like Germany or something like that. I'm sure
that many of my relatives, including my mother and my sister, will be rather
disappointed, and some may cry in response to reading this post. And for that,
I'm truly sorry. But in truth, it's better for both them and I to face reality
than for me to keep pretending. It's just kicking the can down the road. Maybe
some of them will come to me and tell me to listen to their favorite apologists,
or call me a fool for not believing (Psalms 14:1). However, it's almost trivial
to reconcile any contradictions in the Bible, or to come up with some sort of
theodicy in response to a posed problem. The question is if it is tenable to
hold this fragile stack of reconciliations and theodicies together, and I don't
think it is anymore. Feel free to [converse with me](/about) if we want to have
a productive conversation about this though, I'm always open to talk about faith
even if it is not something I have anymore, and I will never, _ever_ berate
someone for being a believer like the atheist caricature depicts.

I am still playing in churches as a drummer, and still attend my first church
almost _every single week_. Part of this is to keep up a ruse to my Christian
loved ones, friends, and coworkers that nothing is wrong with my faith, but I
will also be losing some relationships with people that I would prefer not to
lose[^networking]. I have come to terms with the fact that I will not be playing
drums at churches anymore if I were to leave this church I attend, but I haven't
come to terms yet with potentially losing some of my friends that I still want
to keep in touch with. Presumably, once I do come to terms with this, I will
leave. I've already told myself that I want to leave at the end of the month
twice in these past two months; perhaps the third time will be the charm. I will
update this page once I end up leaving the church, but if you don't see a notice
below this paragraph telling you about this, I'm still going to church almost
every Sunday because I don't have the balls to end the relationship.

**UPDATE**: I have indeed left the church, on July 7, 2024. It took almost three
months for me to pull myself together enough to do it. I guess I grew the pair
of balls that I needed :}

Additionally, I'm working at a company right now whose express goals are to help
churches, and most of my coworkers are all of Christian faith. I could
potentially be losing out on relationships I've made at work, and I do have to
keep in mind that I could be losing my job as well. So if you're reading this,
and you're working at the same place as me, **please don't be alarmed by this
post**. I am still willing to work with anyone regardless of their faith and
goals, provided I still see potential. My lack of faith should not hold you all
back from being able to work with me to achieve your goals. If it does, then so
be it, and I am sorry that this is the way it had to end.

There are many more external consequences for losing faith, but this is already
long enough as it is. I also have to become comfortable with myself losing
faith; after all, it took almost a year before I could come face to face with
the thought that I had lost it in the first place. What are the frameworks that
I will be using to continue living? Many religious people will often claim that
as an atheist, I will have
[no moral framework](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Argument_from_morality), or
that I will have no
[purpose in life](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Meaning_of_life#Christianity),
or other such claims. Unfortunately for them, religion does not have a monopoly
on morals or meaning. How will I live my life then, you may ask? Great question.

As for morals, I've adopted a much more flexible look at them. Morals are an
extremely nuanced subject; after all, we make moral decisions based on a large
variety of factors, but they are still reasons for deeming something morally
good or bad. I'm not going to deny it; emotions and rationality have everything
to do with morality, and embracing that reality is only going to be a good
thing. Doubting my own faculties for rationality is also a good exercise that I
will continue to do. After all, the only thing I know is that
[I know nothing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/I_know_that_I_know_nothing).

There are still some things I take away from my former faith. I am a huge fan of
the idea that you should love your neighbor as yourself. However, now I don't
need to burden myself with the excess baggage of religious duties, faux
humility[^humility] in the whole "I am a sinner and not worthy" manner, and the
historical and current atrocities done in the name of God; I can simply take the
parts that are relevant and apply them to my life, just as we do with any other
principle or situation we see in life. No need for special cases anymore and
twisting my mind into a pretzel as to why God would allow slavery (Leviticus
25:44-46) or the killing of innocent children (Genesis 7:21-23, Numbers,
31:1-18, and many more), while forbidding genuine love (Leviticus 18:22,
20:13)[^lgbtq].

The second step I need to take is also going to be a lifelong process. You may
have seen the little animated quote on the front page of this little place I
write in:

    > I seek to be free from the concept of meaning, to carve my own reality.

But what does it mean to be free from meaning? I have yet to discover this, but
as far as I know, I have abandoned the idea that there is any meaning that is
prescribed to me by a divine being, or by the universe, or some other
inconceivable thing. Instead, I want to free myself of the chains that society
have placed upon me, that I must do something of "worth" in order for my life to
have meaning. As for what that entails, _I don't know_; I am simply willing to
find out. I want to embrace my almost-lost inquisitiveness, the one I used to
have as a child without any remorse, and let it take me on a journey.

"_I don't know_" is indeed a beautiful statement. It's not a cry to find out an
answer, but only a gentle affirmation of the truth as it stands within a given
context. I will be leaning back on this cornerstone for as long as I live.

I leave you with a quote that has influenced me through this entire journey:

    > Think about it, think! It ain't illegal yet. Think!

→ _Eddie Griffin_

[^knowledge]:
    This wasn't knowledge in the traditional sense of the word, but rather a
    strict regurgitation of arguments. I don't think that most apologia is in
    good taste, and serves as post-hoc rationalization for pre-existing belief,
    rather than the primary reason for coming to faith.

[^ccm]:
    I really used to like playing contemporary Christian music and other worship
    music on stage. But after a while, I grew to hate the simplicity of it. It
    was just boring and felt uncreative. The "magic" I refer to here is the idea
    of feeling "the Holy Spirit" while listening to this music. The truth is, I
    felt much more emotion and much more alive listening to
    [Pulse/Surreal](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jh5iinG-CtE) by Lantlôs than
    I ever did to Christian music I played on stage, because I saw through the
    veil of how formulaic and uninspired it was. I could go on for days about
    this, to be honest.

[^irresistible]:
    My sister bought the book for me. If you're reading this, thanks dude. That
    was $15 that changed my life.

[^exegesis]:
    It's hard to draw the lines between what constitutes each one of these,
    which only adds to the cognitive turmoil I had.

[^crossroads]:
    Ironically, the first church I went to was named Crossroads. Guess I really
    had it coming.

[^gotg]:
    In reality, "God of the gaps" is more a subset of the
    [argument from ignorance](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Argument_from_ignorance)
    logical fallacy.

[^kept-going]:
    I don't quite know why I kept going despite disagreeing with the faith. I
    was maybe interested in how people on the other side thought, and in how I
    myself used to think. Perhaps I was just trying to look through a window to
    the past. I'm not sure, even as of the time of writing.

[^poi]:
    I mean this with full intention. Anyone saying that God does not have the
    power to do something, while simultaneously claiming said God is omnipotent
    simply does not know what they are talking about, or are loading their words
    with some other hidden connotations. I'd like to be proven wrong.

[^throat]:
    I am a huge fan of Nietzsche's story _The Vision And The Enigma_. There's a
    depiction of a shepherd ripping a snake out of his throat, where the snake
    represented the
    [eternal recurrence](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eternal_return#Nietzsche's_formulation)
    that the shepherd was scared of. I'm alluding to that here, since Nietzsche
    is one of the philosophers that most resonated with me post-deconversion.
    The prior "I killed him" reference is also from his writings.

[^caps]:
    Notice the change in capitalization. Just a little Easter egg for you :\}.

[^idk]: I said "I don't know". That was the joke. Whoosh.
[^networking]:
    Networking is already hard for software engineers, and I got my most recent
    connections through churches. Needless today, it'll only become harder if I
    lose my existing connections. I would love to work for you if you are
    hiring, here's my
    [résumé](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/water-sucks/resume/main/resume.pdf)
    just in case!

[^humility]:
    If you have to express your humility in any way vocally that explicitly
    denigrates your own lack of worth or your own failings, it's not humility
    anymore. It's self-hate. Loving your own neighbor as yourself requires you
    to love yourself first; ironic coming from a dude who struggles with
    self-esteem issues, but that only makes it more poignant a point.

[^lgbtq]:
    I support the LGBTQ+ community. As an
    [asexual](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Asexuality) dude, it's hard not to.
